# CSC301 - Assignment 5 - Red-black Tree
Govind Brahmanyapura, Charun Upara

This program is an implementation of the red-black tree data structure. First, the program will generate ten random numbers by utilizing the Linear Feedback Shift Register algorithm. Then, those ten numbers will be added to the tree while making sure that the five properties of red-black trees are maintained. After inserting these values, the tree would allow the user to update the content by adding new nodes, deleting existing nodes, or print the black height of a node. After each insert or delete operation, the program would print the newly updated tree.



# Instruction for running the code

Simply running the program will initiailze the tree with the values generated by LFSR(). Then, the user can enter 4 commands in the terminal: ADD [val], DEL [val], BLKH [val], and Quit. The program will keep running until the Quit command is called.

# Runtime Analysis

**Insert**: Given that the height of a red-black-tree containing n nodes is O(log n), Running time for InsertRBT() until the call to InsertRBTFixUp() takes O(log n). In the worst case, with at most two rotations, the while loop in InsertRBTFixUp runs O(log n) times. Thus, the total running time of the insert operation is O(log n).

**Delete**: Given that the height of a red-black-tree containing n nodes is O(log n). Not counting the call to DeleteRBTFixUp(), the total cost of the procedure is O(log n). In DeleteRBTFixUp(), in the worst case, with at most three rotations, the cost is O(log n). Therefore, the overall time of the delete operation is also O(log n).

**Search**: search() is a basic binary search, so is O(log n).

**Find Minimum**: We keep moving down the left subtree until we reach a leaf. Worst case is O(log n) since it is a red-black tree.

**Level Order Print**: levelOrderPrint() takes time O(n) since all nodes need to be visited
